Welcome.
This is Cocoa Interprocess
Communication with XPC.
My name is Tony Parker and
I am a software engineer on
the Cocoa Frameworks team.
So, first we're going to start
with a brief history lesson.
So, back when dinosaurs roamed the
earth programming computers,
they worked on machines that
looked a lot like this one.
They had a single core and a single CPU.
So,
we made our software have architecture
to match with a single thread.
Now,
this architecture worked well for a long
time until something started happening.
CPUs started multiplying
instead of just getting faster.
And at that point,
our architecture of a single thread
for a single CPU started to break
down and we needed to make a change.
And that change, of course,
was a move from
single-threaded applications
to multi-threaded applications.
And this was a challenge,
but technologies like
GCD were there to help.
And it wasn't something that our
users could immediately see just
by looking at the application
that had made this transition.
But it was still something
that they appreciated.
Their applications were more responsive
and they took better advantage
of the hardware that they bought.
So today we're facing a
similar challenging transition.
And that is from a status quo like this,
where we have a multi-user system.
Now, you see that we have had for a long
time barriers between these users.
So somebody else can't get to my data,
and I can't get to Roots data.
But, we're finding that today's systems
are really used by one person.
And, although they're protected
from somebody else,
all of their critical files,
their contacts, their photos,
their personal data,
is all accessible by any
application that runs as their user.
To understand why this is a problem,
let's imagine an OS where every task
shares just one chunk of memory.
In fact, some OSs have behaved
this way in the past.
So what we'll do is
we'll just split it up.
So this part here is
for writing my diary.
And this part over here is for
displaying my vacation photos.
And then the part in the middle will just
leave for executing some JavaScript that
we downloaded from the Internet just now.
And we'll have each task just pinky
swear that they're not going to
touch each other's memory or any
data that the other task is using.
Because they're all executing
in the same memory space,
of course, that's completely possible.
We'll just, you know,
take them at their word.
Well, clearly that's a bad idea.
What we really want is those barriers
back and have each of these tasks
to have just the level of permission
that it needs to do its job.
So we have barriers like this,
and they are process boundaries.
So another example,
the preview application.
Thank you.
It's split into multiple processes.
And these processes have
different levels of permission.
So the one on the left here has access to
the hard drive and access to the network,
and the one on the right has
access only to the contacts.
So this provides two really key benefits.
The first is one of security,
which I just mentioned.
So the process on the right,
if it's compromised in some way,
either the application or any frameworks
or libraries that that application uses,
maybe it can access contacts,
but it can't access the hard drive
and it can't access the network,
so the amount of damage
it can do in terms of,
like, shipping that information off to
somebody else is really limited.
The second benefit is crash protection.
So if this helper process crashes in
the course of accessing the contact
information or processing it in some way,
then the main GUI application
can continue to run,
and the user doesn't have to
be interrupted with some minor
task running into a snafu.
So once we split up these applications
into multiprocess applications,
we need some way to
communicate between them,
and this is called
interprocess communication,
or IPC.
Those dinosaurs we talked about earlier,
we're using things called Mach messages.
Actually, they're still around.
They're the fundamental
form of IPC in our system,
but you may have also heard of
other IPC mechanisms like sockets or
distributed objects or new and lying XPC.
So XPC was, its job was to simplify the
low-level details of this IPC.
It's a C API with custom objects,
containers like XPC dictionaries
and XPC arrays and data
types like XPC string,
XPC date, XPC data and so forth.
When we introduced XPC,
we put it at a low level
in the OS X technology
stack at the Core OS level.
And if you had an application
that uses Cocoa-level
APIs like Foundation or AppKit,
then you may find yourself in
a situation that we sometimes
call impedance mismatch.
So you have an NSArray and you
want to send it over to XPC.
So you pack it up into an XPC array
T and any objects it contains,
send it over your connection,
and on the other side you have to
unpack it and recreate your objects.
So to solve this problem and
to introduce some new features,
in Mountain Lion we have a new
technology called NSXPCConnection.
It allows you to use your own
objects and interfaces with
XPC and interprocess communication.
Let's go over a few of the
design goals of NSXPCConnection.
So again, it's Cocoa.
In fact,
the NSXPCConnection header doesn't
import even the XPC header itself.
So XPC is abstracted away.
It's designed to be simple.
I think this talk will be
enough to get you started.
Because we're crossing privilege
and process boundaries,
it needed to be secure,
and we designed it that
way from the start.
It's very opinionated
about being asynchronous.
Just because we've moved from
single process to multiprocess
doesn't mean we need to revert to
a single-threaded kind of behavior.
And all of the above,
plus some other features like
not being tied to CFRunLoop,
being exception-free,
except in case of program error,
as is the normal Cocoa pattern,
and also Arc-friendly.
In fact, all of the examples and demos
you see today will be using Arc,
combined to make
NSXPCConnection a very modern,
friendly API.
So let's look at a quick demo.
I want to show you what one of these
multiprocess applications looks like
and then we're going to use it as
a basis for the rest of the talk.
Okay.
So here I have an application
called Flight Finder.
And its job is to allow you
to put in a destination,
pick a date and approximate price,
and search for available
flights on that date.
So this application is split
up into multiple pieces.
And one reason might be that let's
imagine that this Flight Finder has
access to my calendar data to find the
next available date on my calendar.
That doesn't sound like something
that we necessarily want mixed with
access to the general Internet.
So that would be a good thing to
put off in its own little process.
So here is the structure of
the application on disk in
my build products folder,
the Flight Finder.
Now, if I show its contents,
You see some of the familiar things here,
including your
Mac OS directory and resources,
but there's this new
directory called xpcservices.
So an xpcservice is one of
these helper processes that
we'll be talking about today.
If I look at the contents of that,
there is another bundle
called ticketagentservice.xpc,
which is a bundle itself,
so I can find it's executable if
I drill down a little bit further.
So now I'm going to pick a date, price,
that much, and search.
And what we'll see is in the background,
our ticket agent service has started up.
You see it's here.
It's also sandboxed like
the main application is.
And we found our ticket
for a price of $181.
So that's a basic
operation of the example.
So let's go back to our slides
and see how we might build this.
Here's a preview of where
we're going to end up.
You see we have two processes, again,
a Flight Finder, the GUI part,
and the Ticket Agent,
which is the part that actually did the
searching for us and returned a result.
We're going to need four major pieces.
The first is an interface.
The second is a connection.
The third is a listener.
And the fourth is a way to communicate,
and that's messages.
First up is interfaces.
The job of an interface is to
abstract away implementation details.
And that's not just the details of how
that ticket agent service or the flight
finder are implemented themselves,
but also how the IPC is
actually happening between them.
Interfaces provide a clear
division of responsibilities.
And in Objective-C,
we have a really handy way of
describing interfaces called protocols.
You'll find that protocols
form a fundamental piece of
how NSXPCConnection works.
So here's the division of
responsibilities of our two processes
in our multiprocess application.
On the Flight Finder,
it can get search input from the user,
it can talk to the agent,
it can show found tickets,
and as we mentioned earlier,
it has access to my calendar data.
The ticket agent, on the other hand,
its job is simply to find flights
and perhaps to buy tickets
and return the result back
to the Flight Finder application.
So we're going to describe the
Ticket Agent interface with
this protocol called Agent.
In this protocol,
you'll have a set of methods,
like this one, CheckIn.
It takes no arguments
and has no return value.
But of course,
often you're going to want to send
data to your helper processes,
so there'll be arguments.
This method, BuyTicketOnDateMaxCost,
has two object arguments,
a string and a date,
and also an integer argument.
Once we've bought a ticket,
we're going to need to receive
it back in the Flight Finder
application in some way.
So one way you might do that is
by creating another protocol to
describe the Flight Finder interface.
Here you see I've got a
method called setTicket,
and it takes a ticket as an argument.
But this request-response pattern
is so common with these XPC services
that instead we're going to
let you build it right into the
agent protocol via a reply block.
So you see I've just added an
argument that has a ticket argument
as its single return value.
And this reply block will be invoked
asynchronously when the reply comes back.
Now we're going to wrap up this protocol
in an object called an NSXPCInterface.
And to create one,
use this simple constructor method,
interface with protocol
and pass in your protocol.
A few more details about
these protocol methods.
The methods must return void.
Again, that's because we're very
opinionated about being asynchronous.
Methods that return a value directly
are very hard to make work in a
pure asynchronous kind of fashion.
So instead if you have return
values or reply values,
you just put them as one of the
arguments to your reply block.
The arguments of the method and
the reply block can be one or more
or none of the following types.
Arithmetic types, like int, float, char,
long, long,
and NS secure coding protocol.
The objective C Boolean type,
null terminated C strings,
C arrays that contain those types and
C structures that contain those types,
including C arrays.
And finally and most importantly,
objects.
And those objects must implement
the NS secure coding protocol,
which we'll talk about
a little bit later.
Here is our preview again.
What we're going to do is create
one of these NSXPC interface
objects in the ticket agent.
You see it describes the agent
protocol and we're going to
call it our exported interface.
That is,
this is the interface we expect this
ticket agent to implement for us.
The Flight Finder also gets
an NSXPC interface that
describes the agent protocol,
but there it's called the
remote object interface.
So this is saying that the
Flight Finder expects its remote side,
the ticket agent,
to implement the agent protocol.
So both sides have a clear idea of
what the other side is supposed to do.
Okay, that's interfaces.
Let's move on to connections.
So I promised you earlier
there was an arrow there.
There it is.
And there are two objects, again,
one on each side,
called NSXPCConnections.
This connection represents an endpoint
in a bidirectional communication channel.
On the ticket agent,
there's one key property.
This is an object that you implement
and it's called the exported object.
And as you might imagine from the name,
its job is to implement
the exported interface.
You see here I've declared an object
that implements the agent protocol.
So let's look at how you would do that.
Here again is our agent
protocol that we just saw.
And I'm going to create an
object called a TicketAgent.
It's a subclass of NSObject and
it implements the agent protocol.
In its implementation,
we just implement those methods.
So here's my check-in method.
It took no arguments,
so I can just get away with
putting a comment there.
But this method, as you remember,
took two object arguments and an integer
argument and has this reply block.
And this one's actually pretty
easy to implement as well.
We take those values as we've
received them and do whatever we
need to do to create a ticket object.
And then we invoke the reply
block with our reply value.
And the way you invoke a reply
block is just like any other block,
which is like a function.
So this one has one argument, our ticket.
And we're done.
So the NSXPCConnection
instance in the Flight Finder,
you can create in three simple steps.
The first is you call Alec
an init with service name.
The argument there is going to
be the bundle identifier of the
XPC service bundle that we saw.
The second step is to set up
its remote object interface.
Here again is the same method,
interface with protocol.
And the third step is to
resume the connection.
Connections start suspended so that you
have an opportunity to configure them,
but you must resume them
before they can be used.
The XPC connection in the
ticket agent is handed to us,
and we'll see how in a second,
but it also has just three
simple steps to configure.
We're going to set its
exported interface,
again,
using the interface with protocol method,
and set its exported object to
be the ticket agent that we just
created and resume it as well.
A few more details about connections.
So here in our example,
we have one side has an exported object
and the other side has a remote object.
But connections are bidirectional,
so you can actually have both
on both sides if you choose.
The lifetime of your XPC service is
managed for you by XPC and by launchd.
So they're launched automatically
when you need them and they
will go away automatically when
the system needs resources,
assuming they're not in the
middle of doing some work.
And finally, in this example,
in this architecture of having
an application and a service,
you should invalidate the connection
in the application when you're done
to clean up any appropriate resources.
And we'll see exactly how
to do that in a demo later.
So in the world of IPC,
it's not always the case that
everything goes perfectly,
so we have some error handling
opportunities for you.
There's two blocks that are properties
of the connection that you can set.
The first is called an
interruption handler.
Interruption handler is called
when the remote side crashes
or closes the connection.
In this case, the NSXPC connection
instance is still valid.
But because the other side crashed,
you may need to restore some state
to get back to what you were doing.
So the reason that it's an
interruption handler in this case
is because this connection was
created with a name or some other
way to look up the connection again,
so we can just recreate
it for you on demand.
So you don't need to recreate
the NSXPC connection instance.
On the other hand,
you may get an invalidation error,
and in that case, the remote side crashed
or invalidate was called,
but we have no way to
recreate the connection.
And in that case, the NSXPC connection
instance is no longer valid.
So generally,
you're going to see interruption
handlers in your application because
your application looked up the service.
And we know how to reconnect to it.
But you're going to get invalidation
handlers in your service because
the service received the connection.
So let's talk about listeners,
which is how those connections
are created in the service.
That's the last object
in the ticket agent,
and the listener's job is to await
new incoming connections and allow
a delegate to configure them.
Here's how you do it.
This will be in the main
function of your service.
We're going to get the
singleton service listener,
set up its delegate,
which is an object which implements
the NSXPC listener delegate protocol.
And like connections,
listeners start suspended
so you must resume them.
Now for service listeners,
when you call resume,
we take over execution
of the application.
And from that point on, as I mentioned,
we're going to manage the lifecycle.
This is equivalent to calling
NS application main or dispatch
main or CFO on loop run or XPC main
or any of those kinds of functions.
The delegate just has one method.
It's called
listenerShouldAcceptNewConnection.
You see that it has a
connection argument.
That's where the connection is
handed to us in the service,
as I promised.
And here's the exact same code we just
saw where we configured the connection
by setting up its exported interface,
exported object, and resuming it.
And then we decide to return
yes to accept the connection.
If you choose to reject the connection,
you can return no.
A connection has a few properties you
can check like effective user identifier
and effective group identifier to see
if you want to accept the connection.
Today we're talking about XPC services,
which are part of your application
bundle and are for the exclusive
use of your application.
But the same NSXPCConnection
APIs can be used to talk to launch
agents and launch daemons as well.
You just need to use the
Mach variant of the init methods,
as you see on this.
And one more detail.
Mach service listeners do
not take control of your
application when you call resume,
unlike the service listener.
That's because in this
more advanced use case,
we expect that you may have additional
requirements for how you need to
run your launch agent or daemon.
All right, now we just need a way to
communicate between these two pieces,
and that's messages.
So we saw earlier an exported object
in the ticket agent that implements
the exported interface and is
responsible for receiving messages
that are sent to the ticket agent.
To send messages to the ticket
agent from the flight finder,
we have an object there
called the RemoteObjectProxy.
And you see it implements or appears
to implement the agent protocol as
described by the RemoteObjectInterface.
To get one, you just ask the connection
for it like this,
Remote Object Proxy,
an unsurprising name,
and then send it your
messages like Check In.
That's it.
Or this one,
Buy Ticket On Date Max Cost Reply.
You see I've passed in my object
arguments and also that integer.
And the reply block goes right
there in line with the message sent.
So that means that it's really easy
to correlate any requests with any
response action that you need to take,
like updating your user interface.
Earlier we saw that you could do error
handling at the connection level.
You can also set up error
handling on a per message basis.
And the way you do that is by
creating a remote object proxy
that has an error handler block.
And using the method called remote
object proxy with error handler.
And in that block,
you can take whatever action is
appropriate for handling that error.
I hope you don't do something
like logging oops to the console.
Users don't look at the console.
A better idea might be to
display placeholder or perhaps
retry the operation if you
have an algorithm to do that.
Now this remote object proxy,
you see I've just nested the call
to get this remote object proxy with
the exact same by ticket on date max
cost reply message that we just saw.
So it's important to note that
what we guarantee for you is that
exactly one of those two blocks
will be called per message sent.
So if you need to, for example,
take a lock before you send this message,
you can release the lock in both
blocks and know that you're not
going to over-release your lock.
So that's a pretty handy
thing to take advantage of.
Let's look a little more detail
about how this message sending works.
So on the flight finder,
I send a message to the proxy called
Buy Ticket-On-Date-Max-Cost-Reply,
and you see I specified a reply
block as one of the arguments.
What we're going to do
is under the covers,
NSXPC connection will gather up all of
the appropriate information it needs,
and then we're gonna hang on to the
reply block until the reply comes back.
The appropriate stuff is sent over
the connection to the ticket agent,
where we will unpack it and create a
stand-in reply block proxy per message,
and pass it all off to
your exported object.
And there we saw the implementation where
we implemented it by calling the reply
block with a reply value like ticket,
and we just do the exact same
operation but in reverse,
and send it back to the flight
finder and invoke your reply block.
These proxies are lightweight objects.
They're basically just an
integer and a reference to the
connection that you're using.
They're immutable in the sense that
you can't change their error handling
blocks after you've created them.
So if you need a different
error handling behavior,
just create another proxy
using these two messages,
these two methods.
And these,
you can send these to the NSXPCConnection
itself or any proxies that you
get from the NSXPCConnection,
depending on whatever is
most convenient for you.
And an important detail,
all the messages we're talking about,
that is the ones delivered to
your exported object and the
invocations of your reply blocks in
the application are delivered on a
per connection private serial queue.
It's not the main thread and it's not
the thread that you sent the message on.
The reason is because, again,
we are trying to promote
asynchronous behavior.
So if you need work
done on the main thread,
then you should figure out what
the minimum amount that you need to
do is and then just move it there
using NSOperationQueue or Dispatch,
whatever is appropriate.
So now we have all four pieces we
needed to build NSXPCConnection.
Let's go back to our demo and look
at it in a little bit more detail.
Here I have the Flight Finder project.
And you can see it has two targets,
a Flight Finder and a
Ticket Agent Service.
And in the build phases,
I've configured it so that the
main application is depending
on the Ticket Agent Service.
And I have an additional copy files
phase to move that XPC service into
the directory that we saw earlier,
content/xpc-services.
In the project itself,
I have three groups of sources.
The first is a set of shared sources.
You'll find that model objects and
interfaces described in headers are
very common to share between both
your application and a service.
We also have the Flight Finder sources
themselves and the Ticket Agent service.
So we started with interfaces.
Let's look at that.
Here is the protocol for the agent
with buy ticket on date max cost reply.
In the application delegate
for this demonstration,
I've chosen to create
the connection in the
application-did-finish-launching method.
Here I create the connection.
You see I'm using the bundle
identifier for my ticket agent service.
I set its remote object interface
to use the agent protocol,
and I resume the connection.
I'm storing my remote object
proxy as an IVAR in this object,
and I create it,
and here is the error handler where,
again, on the main queue,
I'm going to update the UI to
show that something went wrong.
For the listener, in the main function of
the ticket agent service,
you see this is where
I create my service listener,
set up its delegate and
resume the connection.
The TicketAgent object implements
the listener should accept new
connection delegate method.
Here I set up the exported interface,
the exported object and
resume the connection.
When the application chooses to
ask the ticket agent for something,
we just send our buy ticket on date
max cost reply message to the agent
and when the reply comes back,
we're going to execute this on
the main queue which updated
the UI as we saw earlier.
And in the ticket agent,
that implementation is just right
here where we create our ticket,
make sure that nobody's trying
to get us a really cheap ticket
so we make sure it's over $100.
Pretend that we're actually doing
some real work by sleeping and
then reply with the ticket value.
So I want to show you how easy
it is to add new functionality to
this as your requirements change.
So as you saw earlier,
we have -- or as you saw,
we have this today's special
button which is doing nothing.
So I'm going to go ahead
and implement that.
So we're going to start
again with interfaces.
So I'm going to add a new
method to our protocol.
It's called getSpecialFlight.
It takes no arguments
besides the reply block.
And when the reply comes back,
we'll have a ticket.
Excuse me.
So then in the Ticket Agent,
we're going to implement that new method
because we added it to our protocol.
There we go.
You see I'm just going to,
like we saw on the slides,
create our new ticket,
set its destination and price
to New York City and $4.99 and
then reply with the return value.
And in the application,
we need to just hook up our button.
Here it is.
It was empty before.
There we go.
So I'm sending a message
to my remote object proxy,
get special flight,
and on the main queue,
when the reply comes back,
we set up some string values in the UI.
So let's go ahead and rerun this
and make sure that it works.
I'll bring up Activity Monitor again
so we can see if our process starts.
I click Today's Special and you see there
our ticket agent service was started
on demand when we asked for a value
and we got back our reply of $4.99.
Okay, let's go back to our slides.
All right, now we're going to talk about
how those objects are actually
moving between processes.
That's the heart of the matter,
the most important feature
of NSXPCConnection,
and that's using coding.
So if you've used keyed archiver,
then you're familiar
with NSCoding already.
If not, pay attention because I'm
going to do a quick review.
NSCoding is made up of two parts.
There's the NSCoder subclass,
like NSKeyedArchiver
or NSKeyedUnarchiver.
The NSCoding conforming
class and this -- excuse me.
And then this is made up
of two activities as well.
There's encoding in which the coder
takes an in-memory graph of NSCoding
objects and turns them into an archive
that is suitable for storage on disk
or for sending between processes maybe.
And then there's decoding where
we take that archive and convert
it back into an in-memory
representation of those objects.
So here's encoding.
You see I've got a graph of objects,
an itinerary that holds a
ticket that has a string.
So the most important method in
encoding is called encodeWithCoder.
And in there,
the job of this method is to tell the
coder what data is needed to be stored,
so that we can effectively
restore ourselves later.
Using methods like encodeBoolForKey
and encodeObjectForKey.
So when I call encodeObjectForKey,
of course the coder will then call
encodeWithCoder on the ticket.
And there we're going to
encode the string object.
Now you don't need to worry about
how NSString encodes itself,
because as long as
NSString conforms with NSCoding,
we know it can be
included in the archive.
on the flip side is decoding.
So here the most important
method is initWithCoder.
Here the job of this method is to
get back that data from the coder and
initialize the object using methods like
decodeBoolForKey and decodeObjectForKey.
And of course when we call
decodeObjectForKey we're going to
alloc and initWithCoder on the ticket
object which will decode the string
object and you don't need to worry
about how a string inits itself as
long as it conforms with NS coding we
know it can be included in the archive.
NSXPCConnection uses the exact
same NSCoding design pattern.
On message send,
all the argument values are
encoded and on the message receive,
all the arguments are decoded.
NSXPCConnection uses a
new NSCoder subclass.
It's not NSKeyedArchiver,
but it does implement keyed coding.
So here's the method that
you might be sick of by now,
buy ticket on date max cost reply.
So let's use it as an example.
When this message is sent,
the coder will do something like
encode object for key argument one
and argument two because those are
objects and encode integer for key
argument three because it's an integer.
As I mentioned earlier,
the reply block is held on to
until the reply comes back.
So if you capture a lot of
memory in your reply block,
just be aware that we have to keep
that alive until the reply comes back.
And then on receive,
we decode those objects
using decode object for key
and decode integer for key.
Then we create that reply block
proxy and stuff them all into the
arguments to that message that you've
implemented on your exported object.
You may be wondering how the coder
knows what kind of object to alloc
here because it's not specified in the
method and the return type is just ID.
The answer is that the
class came from the archive.
However, the archive came from the remote
process and because we're talking
about privilege and process boundaries,
we shouldn't just trust the remote
process's opinion about what kind
of class should be allocated.
So we need some way to
specify the expected class.
The reason is because that class
could have been any kind of
class in your application or any
frameworks or libraries that it uses.
And that's a huge surface area to
find a security vulnerability in.
It would be much better to just
specify up front a very limited set
of classes that this object can be.
So here's one way we can do it.
In the protocol that we saw earlier,
we specified some class information.
We said the first argument is a string,
the second one is a date,
the first argument of the
reply block is a ticket.
So this information we can actually get
now using some new metadata provided
by the Clang compiler in Mountain Lion.
So it's important -- oh, good.
So the use of the Clang compiler
is required for this feature,
so that's important to note.
But as we saw earlier,
objects don't travel by themselves.
They come in graphs.
So we need some more information about
this object beyond just the top level
that was specified in the protocol.
And to do that, we have a new protocol
called NSSecureCoding and
three new NSCoder methods.
So in the past, in your init with Coder,
you may have done something like this.
Decode object for key and then
check the result to see if it's a
kind of ticket class or that means
a ticket or a subclass of ticket.
Now,
this is useful from some points of view.
If we accidentally send
that ticket object a message
that it doesn't implement,
we would prevent an
exception in this case.
But in terms of security,
it's already too late.
And as I mentioned,
that's because we already called Alec
and we already called init with Coder.
So it's not good enough.
Instead,
what we need to do is specify it up
front using these new NSCoder methods.
The first is called decode
object of class for key.
And so if the expected object is
of one kind of class or a subclass,
then you can use this method.
Now, what will happen is if -- when
using NSXPCConnection is that
if the class doesn't match,
then we're just going to drop
the message on the floor.
Your application or service
doesn't need to worry about it.
It doesn't even have to know that
something came in that was unanswered.
Under the hood,
what's happening is that the
coder throws an exception and
NSXPCConnection catches it.
So if you want to,
you can catch the exception yourself and
take some kind of alternate behavior.
Now, if the class is not
just one kind of class,
but a property list type,
one of our property list types,
then you can use this method,
decode property list for key.
And if it's one of several kinds
of classes that aren't property
list types or it's a collection,
then you can use this method,
decode object of classes for key.
The reason we use this for
collections is because a collection,
by design, doesn't know a lot of details
about the content that it holds.
So we just need a little bit of extra
help from you to tell us what kind
of objects are expected to be in it.
Here's how you do it.
Create a set that contains
the expected classes,
like that method looked like it
contained an array of tickets,
so I have ticket class and array class.
And then I use decode object
of classes and for key.
So in order to send your
objects over NSXPCConnection,
they are required to
adopt NSSecureCoding.
By the way, NSSecureCoding is a
subprotocol of NSCoding.
So here I've got my ticket object,
and you see it's got one property,
a string, called destination.
In its implementation,
the EncodeWithCoder looks exactly
the same as it has been in the past,
where I use EncodeObjectForKey.
Where things look a little bit
different is in the EnitWithCoder.
There you're going to use those new
methods that I just talked about,
DecodeObjectOfClassForKey.
Now there's one more method to implement,
this is the method in NS Secure Coding,
called Support Secure Coding.
It's a class method,
and what you need to do is
override it and return yes.
There's one main reason for this.
So NSSecureCoding protects a
very specific security issue,
that arbitrary code execution
exploit that I mentioned.
What it doesn't do is protect you
against things like buffer overruns or
a false trust in the remote process.
By that, I mean -- imagine that we
take a string argument,
and then we just take its contents
and run it as a Perl script as root.
Well, clearly that's going to be an
insecure kind of -- just the
whole nature of it is insecure.
We can't protect against that.
So what we want you to do is,
when you adopt
NSSecureCoding in your class,
review the code in your initWithCoder,
put on your security hat,
and look for these kinds of
security vulnerabilities.
Or, you know,
maybe the class isn't suitable for
crossing a privilege boundary at all.
So put on your hat, review the code,
and then implement that method right next
to your initWithCoder and return yes.
To help you with this,
we implemented a rule that is that if you
override init with coder in your class,
you must also override support
secure coding and return yes.
So if your superclass implements
NS secure coding and you
override init with coder,
your superclass' implementation of
support secure coding isn't enough.
We want you to look at your init
with coder and make sure that
it's secure and to indicate that,
you just implement that
one method and return yes.
So we talked a little bit
about collections earlier.
Here we have a top-level collection
that's one in the protocol.
So again, the collection doesn't know any
details about the content and
because the protocol just says array,
we can't know from the protocol.
So again, we're going to need a little
help to understand what kind of
objects we expect to be in here.
If it's a property list type,
one of these,
then we're going to automatically
whitelist it for you and you
have no additional work to do.
If, on the other hand,
it's one of your objects,
like this one appears to be
an array of ticket objects,
then we need to set that information
up in the NSXPC interface.
Here's how you do it.
So there at the top
is our protocol again.
So we're going to create our interface.
Set its -- create a set
of expected classes.
In this case,
I already know the top level is an array,
so you just need to specify the
stuff that's in it -- tickets.
And then use this method
on the interface object.
Set classes for selector
argument index of reply.
I want to go through it
argument by argument.
The first one is the
set of expected classes.
The second is the selector in the
protocol that we're modifying.
The third argument is the index of
the argument that we're modifying.
Here it's argument index zero.
And the last argument
in this case will be no,
because this method
doesn't have a reply block.
We're modifying the argument
to the method itself.
If instead it has a reply block,
like this one, get lots of tickets,
it's a getter, you see the selector is
going to be that method.
The argument -- sorry,
the last argument is yes,
because we're talking
about the reply block,
not the method itself.
And then the argument index
refers to the argument of the
So again, use this method to tell the
interface what the contents of
your top-level collections are.
Next, let's talk about a few design
patterns that you'll see as you
start to adopt NSXPCConnection.
In your service,
there are two key patterns.
The first is one of having little state,
mostly functional and
short-lived kind of state.
In that case,
it's very common to have one singleton
thread-safe object that implements both
the NSXPC listener delegate protocol
and your exported object protocol.
The other kind of pattern is one
where you have lots of state and you
have long-lived kind of behavior.
In that case, you'll typically have one
NSXPCListenerDelegate and
in its delegate method,
will create one new exported
object per connection.
In the application,
you'll see a pattern of,
as we saw a little bit earlier,
asynchronous UI updates
and further separation of
interface and implementation.
So I'm going to do one more demo.
I want to show you how to add
an XPC service to a project.
We're going to move some code
from the main application to that
service and I'm going to show you
briefly how you might debug it.
So let's go ahead and
quit the Flight Finder.
We don't need that.
Here I want to use a slightly
more complicated example.
It's called Sandboxed Fetch.
Now this is a public sample code
that I've actually taken and
modified to use NSXPCConnection.
And what it does is you just give it a
URL and it will download that from the
Internet and then if this box is checked,
it will compress that file before
saving it to a user-specified location.
So here I've picked a URL that
has a fairly large image so
that we can see some progress.
And you see we've been
presented with our save panel,
so I'm just going to go ahead
and save it on the desktop.
And there is our file.
So let's look at the
implementation of this project.
So as you can see here,
we just have one target.
So this is a single process application.
It's code signed and it has
the entitlements to allow it
to have an outgoing network
connection and also read/write
access to my user-selected file.
So if your application
deals with file formats,
especially compression formats,
image formats, movie formats,
audio formats, those kinds of things,
those are notorious for having security
issues and problems that cause crashes.
So those are prime candidates for
moving into a separate helper process
that has a limited set of permissions.
So that's what we're going to do.
We're going to move the compression
stuff into an XPC service.
So to do that,
I'm going to add a new target.
Here in the framework
and library section,
you see there's our XPC service template.
You should give your XPC service a name
that reflects what it's going to do,
like Zip Service.
And I also suggest that you make
the company identifier have your
application name so that the full
bundle identifier is a qualified bundle
identifier so it's easy to identify.
Again, this bundle identifier is what
we're going to use to connect to it.
And go ahead and click finish.
So we're going to add a
file to this zip service.
A property list type called
ZipService.entitlements
And the purpose of this file is to
enable sandboxing in our XPC service
like our main application has.
So the easiest way to do this is
we're just going to crib something
from the main application here.
Here's the same set of entitlements
we saw in that GUI earlier,
but this is the real source of them.
So I copy the app sandbox entitlement
and I'm just going to paste it here.
So we're going to have no
permissions for this helper process
besides just enabling the sandbox.
Go back to our configuration.
So in the build phases,
I'm going to add a dependency
on a library called libz.
That's what's actually
doing the compression.
And in the build settings,
I'm going to turn on sandboxing
by code signing my application.
Drag it over from here so
I don't make any typos on stage.
There we go.
And we're done configuring
our ZIP service.
Now we just need to
configure our application.
This is in the same way
that we saw earlier.
We're going to add a dependency on the
-- from the Sandbox Fetch application
on the new service that we just created.
That ensures that it's built correctly
and up-to-date when we need it to be.
And add a new copy files build phase.
And into the wrapper we're going
to put it in contents/XPC services,
the same path that we saw earlier.
And the file we're going to put
there is our XPC build product.
So let's just go ahead and build
this application right now to see
if everything worked correctly.
So no build errors.
And I'm going to show this project,
this build product in Finder.
And there's our XPC service
in the XPC services directory.
So it's been put in the right place.
Okay, so that was step one.
Now we're going to move some
code from the main application
into this helper service.
Here is the header file that
describes the zip interface.
It's a singleton object where
you get this shared zipper and
then you send it this message,
"Compress file to file with
reply." It uses NSFileHandle.
This is a good time to mention
that NSFileHandle has been enhanced
in Mountain Lion to allow it
to be sent between processes
using this NSXPCConnection.
So that means that, as you notice,
we didn't give the helper service any
permission to open files on its own.
The main application has it.
And when we send this file
to it over NSXPCConnection,
the other process will have
permission to access it automatically.
So if you remember,
one of my patterns was
a further separation of
interface and implementation.
So what we're going to do is split
out this compressed file logic
into a new interface called ZIP.
And this zipper object will conform to
that and it will also be a singleton
object because it's got very little
state to hold and it's short-lived.
So we're going to implement both
the exported object protocol and the
NSXPC listener delegate protocol.
Let's go ahead and do that now.
Here is the implementation
of that zipper functionality.
This is the compressed file method.
What I want to do here is put
in the implementation of the
NSXPCListenerDelegate protocol.
Listener should accept new connection.
And again,
we're going to set our exported
interface to be the zip protocol.
Set our exported object to be
self because it's a singleton
and resume the connection.
Now pay attention because
this is the hardest part.
I'm going to move --
This logic from this file from
sandbox fetch to the zip service.
There we go.
Okay.
So that was the interface.
Next, let's look at the listener.
So we can add an import of our
[Transcript missing]
set its delegate to be one of these
zipper objects and resume the connection.
So finally, we just need to,
in the main application,
instead of creating the zipper itself,
we're just going to instead send
that request to our XPC service.
So this method is called
: Save file.
And its job is to present that UI where
we displayed the panel and then also
once the user has decided to compress it,
create a file handle
and then zip the file.
So what we'll do here is
Create the connection.
These are the exact same
lines of code we saw earlier.
In it with service name, there is our
com.demo.SandboxedFetch.ZipServiceBundle
Identifier.
Set the remote object interface to be the
zip protocol and resume the connection.
As I mentioned earlier,
we need to invalidate the
connection when we're done with it.
So this reply block will be called
after the compression is done.
That seems like a good time to invalidate
the connection because we're no longer
going to need it after that point.
And finally,
instead of using the singleton
shared zipper that was in process,
we're going to use the remote object
proxy that comes from the connection
that implements the zip protocol.
So let's run it again and see
if everything behaves correctly.
I'll bring up Activity Monitor again.
: We're going to filter
it for zip service.
I'll click fetch.
The file is downloaded.
Click save.
Replace the one we already downloaded.
You see that as the
compression started to happen,
our zip service started and
it's correctly sandboxed.
So, I mentioned earlier that
NSXPCConnection has a feature
of providing crash protection.
So, to demonstrate that,
I'm just going to go ahead and
kill this background process.
And you see that the main
application just continued to run.
In fact, the user didn't even need to
know that that process went away.
So I'll take this opportunity to show you
some debugging tips about how to actually
go ahead and debug these XPC services.
There's a couple of ways.
One way is you notice that we
have a new zip service here,
and we can edit this scheme.
and choose our new executable in
the same place that we saw earlier.
[Transcript missing]
You notice that -- oh,
maybe it would be a good idea
to actually set a breakpoint.
Let's do that.
In the compressed file.
Through all that,
our main application is still running,
so that's the crash protection for you.
And let's see, I'm going to go ahead and
rerun our zip service.
And it's waiting with
a breakpoint this time.
Download and save.
And the main application is
just waiting for the reply here.
You notice asynchronously,
because I can still, you know,
although it's just playing a sheet,
I can still -- wow, that's interesting.
: Okay.
Somebody report that one.
Anyway, so in Xcode --
In Xcode, we stopped on our breakpoint in
the sandbox fetch helper process.
And you see that we are allowed
to both debug the service and
the application at the same time.
So here I can, you know,
view the values of various, you know,
values or step through my process
and then when I continue it,
our main application has received
its response and hidden the
panel and everything is finished.
So it's actually pretty easy to
split up your process and debug
it at the same time in Xcode.
Okay.
Let's go back to our slides.
So just like we moved from single
threaded to multi-threaded applications,
today we're moving from single
process to multi-process applications.
It provides two key benefits.
The first is security by
allowing these helper processes
to have only the permissions
that they need to do their job.
The second is crash protection,
so if something goes wrong,
then the user doesn't have to interrupt
it and lose all of their work.
NSXPC connection is designed
to help you connect them.
Again, it works with your own
objects and interfaces.
And it's designed to be
both secure and modern.
There are three main pieces.
The interfaces,
which provide a clear division
of responsibility and abstract
away implementation details.
Connections,
which provide the bidirectional
communication channel between them.
And finally, listeners,
whose job it is to await new
incoming connections and allow
a delegate to configure them.
For more information,
here are some links for you.
The sandbox fetch 2 example that I showed
is available as part of this session.
In the sample that you see online,
I've split it up into three processes
because three is better than two.
And the third process
actually does the downloading.
So we've even separated out
the permissions further.
And for those of you watching on video,
we hope to get this promoted to a
public sample code as well soon.
XPCConnection,
NSXPCConnection is based on top of XPC,
of course.
So you'll find a lot
of helpful information,
especially about the error handling
stuff in the XPC man pages.
We have one more related session,
that's tomorrow morning,
and that's Asynchronous
Design Patterns with Blocks,
GCD, and XPC.
So this session is about the
underlying parts of NSXPCConnection,
but the design patterns that they're
going to go through are really
helpful to help understand how you
might segregate your application.
I gave you some simple examples,
and they'll show you
some more advanced ones.
So that's it.
I hope you go out and make
some great applications.